private-rpc/README.md, before:

# Private RPC

This package it's a proxy between final users and the network rpc.

Users need to provide a unique token in order to interact with the network. Each token provides a scoped view of the
network.

## Usage

Run the command below once to initialize the DB, build the image and generate docker-compose files:

```bash
zkstack private-rpc init
```

You can later run the private proxy using:

```bash
zkstack private-rcp run
```

To reset the DB run

```bash
zkstack private-rpc reset-db
```

## Modifying the permissions

The permissions can be modified by updating the `private-rpc-permissions.yaml` file. The exact path of this file will be
printed during the init command.

## Creating access tokens

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:4041/users \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -d '{
           "address": "0x4f9133d1d3f50011a6859807c837bdcb31aaab13",
           "secret": "sososecret"
         }'
```

## Using the rpc

```bash

HOST="http://localhost:4041"
TOKEN="<your-access-token>"
ADDRESS="0x4f9133d1d3f50011a6859807c837bdcb31aaab13"

curl -X POST "${HOST}/rpc/${TOKEN}" \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     --data '{
       "jsonrpc":"2.0",
       "method":"eth_getBalance",
       "params":[
         "'"${ADDRESS}"'",
         "latest"
       ],
       "id":1
     }'

```

Commit message:

docs(README): Enhance private-rpc documentation for wallet whitelisting and contract permissions
- Added detailed sections on wallet whitelisting, including configuration options for allowing all wallets or specific addresses.
- Introduced a new section on contract and method permissions, outlining how to control access to specific methods on contracts for enhanced security.

private-rpc/README.md, after:

# Private RPC

This package it's a proxy between final users and the network rpc.

Users need to provide a unique token in order to interact with the network. Each token provides a scoped view of the
network.

## Usage

Run the command below once to initialize the DB, build the image and generate docker-compose files:

```bash
zkstack private-rpc init
```

You can later run the private proxy using:

```bash
zkstack private-rcp run
```

To reset the DB run

```bash
zkstack private-rpc reset-db
```

## Modifying the permissions

The permissions can be modified by updating the `private-rpc-permissions.yaml` file. The exact path of this file will be
printed during the init command.

The file has two main sections: `whitelisted_wallets` and `contracts`.

### Wallet Whitelisting
The `whitelisted_wallets` key controls which wallet addresses are allowed to connect to the RPC. This is the first layer of security.
It has two modes:

1.  **Allow all wallets**: To disable whitelisting and allow any address to connect, use the literal string `"all"`.
    ```yaml
    whitelisted_wallets: "all"
    ```

2.  **Allow specific wallets**: To restrict access, provide a list of authorized wallet addresses. The list cannot be empty.
    ```yaml
    whitelisted_wallets:
      - '0xAb5801a7D398351b8bE11C439e05C5B3259aeC9B'
      - '0x...another address...'
    ```
    
### Contract & Method Permissions
The `contracts` section allows for fine-grained control over which addresses can call specific methods on specific contracts. This acts as a second layer of security after the initial wallet whitelist check.

## Creating access tokens

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:4041/users \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     -d '{
           "address": "0x4f9133d1d3f50011a6859807c837bdcb31aaab13",
           "secret": "sososecret"
         }'
```

## Using the rpc

```bash

HOST="http://localhost:4041"
TOKEN="<your-access-token>"
ADDRESS="0x4f9133d1d3f50011a6859807c837bdcb31aaab13"

curl -X POST "${HOST}/rpc/${TOKEN}" \
     -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
     --data '{
       "jsonrpc":"2.0",
       "method":"eth_getBalance",
       "params":[
         "'"${ADDRESS}"'",
         "latest"
       ],
       "id":1
     }'

```
