prover/docs/src/03_launch.md, before:

# Running provers

## Preparing

First, create a new chain with prover mode `GPU`:

```bash
zkstack chain create --prover-mode gpu
```

It will create a config similar to `era`, but with:

- Proof sending mode set to `OnlyRealProofs`
- Prover mode set to `Local` instead of `GCS`.

## Key generation

This operation should only be done once; if you already generated keys, you can skip it.

The following command will generate the required keys:

```bash
zkstack prover setup-keys
```

With that, you should be ready to run the prover.

## Running

Important! Generating a proof takes a lot of time, so if you just want to see whether you can generate a proof, do it
against clean sequencer state (e.g. right after `zkstack chain init`).

We will be running a bunch of binaries, it's recommended to run each in a separate terminal.

### Server

```bash
zkstack server --components=api,tree,eth,state_keeper,housekeeper,commitment_generator,da_dispatcher,proof_data_handler,vm_runner_protective_reads,vm_runner_bwip
```

### Prover gateway

```bash
zkstack prover run --component=gateway
```

Then wait until the first job is picked up. Prover gateway has to insert protocol information into the database, and
until it happens, witness generators will panic and won't be able to start.

### Witness generator

Once a job is created, start witness generators:

```bash
zkstack prover run --component=witness-generator --round=all-rounds
```

`--all_rounds` means that witness generator will produce witnesses of all kinds. You can run a witness generator for
each round separately, but it's mostly useful in production environments.

### Circuit Prover

```bash
zkstack prover run --component=circuit-prover -l 15 -h 1
```

Circuit prover takes outputs from witness generators and produces proofs out of it. As part of the process, there's
vector generation and GPU proving. Vector Generation is single-threaded time-consuming operation. You may run multiple
jobs by changing `-l` and `-h` parameters. The exact amount depends strictly on your CPU/GPU specs, but a ballpark
estimate (useful for local development) is 15 light & 1 heavy.

```admonish note
The light threads typically uses approximately 2GB of RAM, with heavy ~10GB of RAM.
```

### Prover job monitor

You can start the prover job monitor by specifying its component as follows.

```bash
zkstack prover run --component=prover-job-monitor
```

### Insert protocol version in prover database

Before running the prover, you can insert the protocol version in the prover database by executing the following
command:

```bash
zkstack dev prover insert-version --version <VERSION> --snark-wrapper=<SNARK_WRAPPER>
```

To query this information, use the following command:

```bash
zkstack dev prover info
```

### Proof compressor

```admonish warning
Both prover and proof compressor require 24GB of VRAM, and currently it's not possible to make them use different
GPU. So unless you have a GPU with 48GB of VRAM, you won't be able to run both at the same time.
```

You should wait until the proof is generated, and once you see in the server logs that it tries to find available
compressor, you can shut the prover down, and run the proof compressor:

```bash
zkstack prover run --component=compressor
```

Once the proof is compressed, proof gateway will see that and will send the generated proof back to core.

Commit message:

feat(prover): --threads feature to WVGs (#4291)
## What ❔
Added --threads feature to specify number of CPU threads to run WVG on.
If specified, light and heavy flags are ignored.
<!-- What are the changes this PR brings about? -->
<!-- Example: This PR adds a PR template to the repo. -->
<!-- (For bigger PRs adding more context is appreciated) -->

## Why ❔
Currently we have 'light' and 'heavy' jobs for WVG depending on circuit
type. We want to simplify picking jobs and don't prioritize one type
over another.
<!-- Why are these changes done? What goal do they contribute to? What
are the principles behind them? -->
<!-- The `Why` has to be clear to non-Matter Labs entities running their
own ZK Chain -->
<!-- Example: PR templates ensure PR reviewers, observers, and future
iterators are in context about the evolution of repos. -->

## Is this a breaking change?
- [ ] Yes
- [ ] No

## Operational changes
<!-- Any config changes? Any new flags? Any changes to any scripts? -->
<!-- Please add anything that non-Matter Labs entities running their own
ZK Chain may need to know -->

## Checklist

<!-- Check your PR fulfills the following items. -->
<!-- For draft PRs check the boxes as you complete them. -->

- [ ] PR title corresponds to the body of PR (we generate changelog
entries from PRs).
- [ ] Tests for the changes have been added / updated.
- [ ] Documentation comments have been added / updated.
- [ ] Code has been formatted via `zkstack dev fmt` and `zkstack dev
lint`.

---------

Co-authored-by: EmilLuta <EmilLuta@users.noreply.github.com>

prover/docs/src/03_launch.md, after:

# Running provers

## Preparing

First, create a new chain with prover mode `GPU`:

```bash
zkstack chain create --prover-mode gpu
```

It will create a config similar to `era`, but with:

- Proof sending mode set to `OnlyRealProofs`
- Prover mode set to `Local` instead of `GCS`.

## Key generation

This operation should only be done once; if you already generated keys, you can skip it.

The following command will generate the required keys:

```bash
zkstack prover setup-keys
```

With that, you should be ready to run the prover.

## Running

Important! Generating a proof takes a lot of time, so if you just want to see whether you can generate a proof, do it
against clean sequencer state (e.g. right after `zkstack chain init`).

We will be running a bunch of binaries, it's recommended to run each in a separate terminal.

### Server

```bash
zkstack server --components=api,tree,eth,state_keeper,housekeeper,commitment_generator,da_dispatcher,proof_data_handler,vm_runner_protective_reads,vm_runner_bwip
```

### Prover gateway

```bash
zkstack prover run --component=gateway
```

Then wait until the first job is picked up. Prover gateway has to insert protocol information into the database, and
until it happens, witness generators will panic and won't be able to start.

### Witness generator

Once a job is created, start witness generators:

```bash
zkstack prover run --component=witness-generator --round=all-rounds
```

`--all_rounds` means that witness generator will produce witnesses of all kinds. You can run a witness generator for
each round separately, but it's mostly useful in production environments.

### Circuit Prover

```bash
zkstack prover run --component=circuit-prover --threads 32
```

Circuit prover takes outputs from witness generators and produces proofs out of it. As part of the process, there's
vector generation and GPU proving. Vector Generation is single-threaded time-consuming operation. You may run multiple
jobs by changing `--threads` parameter, it should correspond to the number of CPU cores. Alternatively you can use
advanced mode by setting `--light_wvg_count` and `--heavy_wvg_count` parameters instead of `--threads`. The exact amount
depends strictly on your CPU/GPU specs, but a ballpark estimate (useful for local development) is 15 light & 1 heavy.

```admonish note
The light threads typically uses approximately 2GB of RAM, with heavy ~10GB of RAM.
```

### Prover job monitor

You can start the prover job monitor by specifying its component as follows.

```bash
zkstack prover run --component=prover-job-monitor
```

### Insert protocol version in prover database

Before running the prover, you can insert the protocol version in the prover database by executing the following
command:

```bash
zkstack dev prover insert-version --version <VERSION> --snark-wrapper=<SNARK_WRAPPER>
```

To query this information, use the following command:

```bash
zkstack dev prover info
```

### Proof compressor

```admonish warning
Both prover and proof compressor require 24GB of VRAM, and currently it's not possible to make them use different
GPU. So unless you have a GPU with 48GB of VRAM, you won't be able to run both at the same time.
```

You should wait until the proof is generated, and once you see in the server logs that it tries to find available
compressor, you can shut the prover down, and run the proof compressor:

```bash
zkstack prover run --component=compressor
```

Once the proof is compressed, proof gateway will see that and will send the generated proof back to core.
