docs/src/SUMMARY.md, before:

<!-- markdownlint-disable-file MD025 -->

# Summary

[Introduction](README.md)

# Guides

- [Basic](guides/README.md)

  - [Setup Dev](guides/setup-dev.md)
  - [Development](guides/development.md)
  - [Launch](guides/launch.md)
  - [Architecture](guides/architecture.md)
  - [Build Docker](guides/build-docker.md)
  - [Repositories](guides/repositories.md)

- [Advanced](guides/advanced/README.md)
  - [Local initialization](guides/advanced/01_initialization.md)
  - [Deposits](guides/advanced/02_deposits.md)
  - [Withdrawals](guides/advanced/03_withdrawals.md)
  - [Contracts](guides/advanced/04_contracts.md)
  - [Calls](guides/advanced/05_how_call_works.md)
  - [Transactions](guides/advanced/06_how_transaction_works.md)
  - [Fee Model](guides/advanced/07_fee_model.md)
  - [L2 Messaging](guides/advanced/08_how_l2_messaging_works.md)
  - [Pubdata](guides/advanced/09_pubdata.md)
  - [Pubdata with Blobs](guides/advanced/10_pubdata_with_blobs.md)
  - [Bytecode compression](guides/advanced/11_compression.md)
  - [EraVM intro](guides/advanced/12_alternative_vm_intro.md)
  - [ZK Intuition](guides/advanced/13_zk_intuition.md)
  - [ZK Deeper Dive](guides/advanced/14_zk_deeper_overview.md)
  - [Prover Keys](guides/advanced/15_prover_keys.md)
  - [Decentralization](guides/advanced/16_decentralization.md)
  - [L1 Batch Reversion](guides/advanced/17_batch_reverter.md)
  - [Allowlist](guides/advanced/18_allowlist.md)
  - [Interop basics](guides/advanced/19_interop_basics.md)
  - [Advanced Debugging](guides/advanced/90_advanced_debugging.md)
  - [Docker and CI](guides/advanced/91_docker_and_ci.md)

# External Node

- [External node](guides/external-node/01_intro.md)
  - [Quick Start](guides/external-node/00_quick_start.md)
  - [Configuration](guides/external-node/02_configuration.md)
  - [Running](guides/external-node/03_running.md)
  - [Observability](guides/external-node/04_observability.md)
  - [Troubleshooting](guides/external-node/05_troubleshooting.md)
  - [Components](guides/external-node/06_components.md)
  - [Snapshots Recovery](guides/external-node/07_snapshots_recovery.md)
  - [Pruning](guides/external-node/08_pruning.md)
  - [Treeless Mode](guides/external-node/09_treeless_mode.md)
  - [Decentralization](guides/external-node/10_decentralization.md)
  - [Setup for other chains](guides/external-node/11_setup_for_other_chains.md)

# Specs

- [Introduction](specs/introduction.md)
  - [Overview](specs/overview.md)
  - [Blocks and Batches](specs/blocks_batches.md)
  - [L1 Smart Contracts](specs/l1_smart_contracts.md)
- [Contracts](specs/contracts/README.md)
  - [Overview](specs/contracts/overview.md)
  - [Glossary](specs/contracts/glossary.md)
  - [Chain Management](specs/contracts/chain_management/overview.md)
    - [Bridgehub](specs/contracts/chain_management/bridgehub.md)
    - [Chain type manager](specs/contracts/chain_management/chain_type_manager.md)
    - [Admin role](specs/contracts/chain_management/admin_role.md)
    - [Chain genesis](specs/contracts/chain_management/chain_genesis.md)
    - [Standard Upgrade process](specs/contracts/chain_management/upgrade_process.md)
  - [Bridging](specs/contracts/bridging/overview.md)
    - [Asset Router](specs/contracts/bridging/asset_router_and_ntv/asset_router.md)
    - [Native token vault](specs/contracts/bridging/asset_router_and_ntv/native_token_vault.md)
  - [Interop](specs/contracts/interop/overview.md)
    - [Message root](specs/contracts/interop/message_root.md)
    - [Forms of finality](specs/contracts/interop/forms_of_finality.md)
    - [Interop messages](specs/contracts/interop/interop_messages.md)
    - [Examples](specs/contracts/interop/examples/README.md)
      - [Cross-chain message](specs/contracts/interop/examples/cross_chain_message.md)
  - [Settlement Contracts](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/zkchain_basics.md)
    - [L1 <> L2 communication](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/priority_queue/README.md)
      - [Handling L1→L2 operations](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/priority_queue/l1_l2_communication/l1_to_l2.md)
      - [L2→L1 communication](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/priority_queue/l1_l2_communication/l2_to_l1.md)
      - [Overview - Deposits and Withdrawals](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/priority_queue/l1_l2_communication/overview_deposits_withdrawals.md)
      - [Priority queue](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/priority_queue/priority-queue.md)
    - [Data availability](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/data_availability/README.md)
      - [Pubdata](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/data_availability/pubdata.md)
      - [Compression](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/data_availability/compression.md)
      - [Reconstruction](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/data_availability/reconstruction.md)
      - [Validium and zkPorter](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/data_availability/validium_zk_porter.md)
      - [Custom DA support](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/data_availability/custom_da.md)
      - [Rollup DA support](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/data_availability/rollup_da.md)
      - [Standard pubdata format](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/data_availability/standard_pubdata_format.md)
      - [State diff compression v1 spec](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/data_availability/state_diff_compression_v1_spec.md)
  - [Gateway](specs/contracts/gateway/overview.md)
    - [Chain migration](specs/contracts/gateway/chain_migration.md)
    - [L1->L2 messaging via gateway](specs/contracts/gateway/messaging_via_gateway.md)
    - [L2->L1 messaging via gateway](specs/contracts/gateway/l2_gw_l1_messaging.md)
    - [Gateway protocol versioning](specs/contracts/gateway/gateway_protocol_upgrades.md)
    - [DA handling on Gateway](specs/contracts/gateway/gateway_da.md)
  - [Consensus](specs/contracts/consensus/README.md)
    - [Consensus Registry](specs/contracts/consensus/consensus-registry.md)
  - [zkEVM](specs/contracts/zkevm/overview.md)
    - [Batches and blocks on ZKsync](specs/contracts/zkevm/batches_and_blocks_on_zksync.md)
    - [Bootloader](specs/contracts/zkevm/bootloader.md)
    - [System contracts](specs/contracts/zkevm/system_contracts.md)
    - [Precompiles](specs/contracts/zkevm/precompiles.md)
    - [Account abstraction](specs/contracts/zkevm/account_abstraction.md)
    - [Fee model](specs/contracts/zkevm/zksync_fee_model.md)
- [Upgrade history](specs/upgrade_history/gateway_upgrade/README.md)
  - [Gateway upgrade diff](specs/upgrade_history/gateway_upgrade/gateway_diff_review.md)
  - [Gateway upgrade process](specs/upgrade_history/gateway_upgrade/upgrade_process_no_gateway_chain.md)
- [Prover](specs/prover/overview.md)
  - [Getting Started](specs/prover/getting_started.md)
  - [ZK Terminology](specs/prover/zk_terminology.md)
  - [Function Check if Satisfied](specs/prover/boojum_function_check_if_satisfied.md)
  - [Gadgets](specs/prover/boojum_gadgets.md)
  - [Circuit Testing](specs/prover/circuit_testing.md)
  - [Circuits Overview](specs/prover/circuits/overview.md)
- [Era VM](specs/era_vm_specification/README.md)
  - [VM primer](specs/era_vm_specification/zkSync_era_virtual_machine_primer.md)

# Announcements

- [Announcements](announcements/README.md)
  - [Configuration Format Changes](announcements/config_format_changes.md)

Commit message:

migrate docs from era-contracts, small fixes

docs/src/SUMMARY.md, after:

<!-- markdownlint-disable-file MD025 -->

# Summary

[Introduction](README.md)

# Guides

- [Basic](guides/README.md)

  - [Setup Dev](guides/setup-dev.md)
  - [Development](guides/development.md)
  - [Launch](guides/launch.md)
  - [Architecture](guides/architecture.md)
  - [Build Docker](guides/build-docker.md)
  - [Repositories](guides/repositories.md)

- [Advanced](guides/advanced/README.md)
  - [Local initialization](guides/advanced/01_initialization.md)
  - [Deposits](guides/advanced/02_deposits.md)
  - [Withdrawals](guides/advanced/03_withdrawals.md)
  - [Contracts](guides/advanced/04_contracts.md)
  - [Calls](guides/advanced/05_how_call_works.md)
  - [Transactions](guides/advanced/06_how_transaction_works.md)
  - [Fee Model](guides/advanced/07_fee_model.md)
  - [L2 Messaging](guides/advanced/08_how_l2_messaging_works.md)
  - [Pubdata](guides/advanced/09_pubdata.md)
  - [Pubdata with Blobs](guides/advanced/10_pubdata_with_blobs.md)
  - [Bytecode compression](guides/advanced/11_compression.md)
  - [EraVM intro](guides/advanced/12_alternative_vm_intro.md)
  - [ZK Intuition](guides/advanced/13_zk_intuition.md)
  - [ZK Deeper Dive](guides/advanced/14_zk_deeper_overview.md)
  - [Prover Keys](guides/advanced/15_prover_keys.md)
  - [Decentralization](guides/advanced/16_decentralization.md)
  - [L1 Batch Reversion](guides/advanced/17_batch_reverter.md)
  - [Allowlist](guides/advanced/18_allowlist.md)
  - [Interop basics](guides/advanced/19_interop_basics.md)
  - [Advanced Debugging](guides/advanced/90_advanced_debugging.md)
  - [Docker and CI](guides/advanced/91_docker_and_ci.md)

# External Node

- [External node](guides/external-node/01_intro.md)
  - [Quick Start](guides/external-node/00_quick_start.md)
  - [Configuration](guides/external-node/02_configuration.md)
  - [Running](guides/external-node/03_running.md)
  - [Observability](guides/external-node/04_observability.md)
  - [Troubleshooting](guides/external-node/05_troubleshooting.md)
  - [Components](guides/external-node/06_components.md)
  - [Snapshots Recovery](guides/external-node/07_snapshots_recovery.md)
  - [Pruning](guides/external-node/08_pruning.md)
  - [Treeless Mode](guides/external-node/09_treeless_mode.md)
  - [Decentralization](guides/external-node/10_decentralization.md)
  - [Setup for other chains](guides/external-node/11_setup_for_other_chains.md)

# Specs

- [Introduction](specs/introduction.md)
  - [Overview](specs/overview.md)
  - [Blocks and Batches](specs/blocks_batches.md)
  - [L1 Smart Contracts](specs/l1_smart_contracts.md)
- [Contracts](specs/contracts/README.md)
  - [Overview](specs/contracts/overview.md)
  - [Glossary](specs/contracts/glossary.md)
  - [Chain Management](specs/contracts/chain_management/overview.md)
    - [Bridgehub](specs/contracts/chain_management/bridgehub.md)
    - [Chain type manager](specs/contracts/chain_management/chain_type_manager.md)
    - [Admin role](specs/contracts/chain_management/admin_role.md)
    - [Chain genesis](specs/contracts/chain_management/chain_genesis.md)
    - [Standard Upgrade process](specs/contracts/chain_management/upgrade_process.md)
  - [Bridging](specs/contracts/bridging/overview.md)
    - [Asset Router and NTV](specs/contracts/bridging/asset_router_and_ntv/overview.md)
    - [Asset Router](specs/contracts/bridging/asset_router_and_ntv/asset_router.md)
    - [Native token vault](specs/contracts/bridging/asset_router_and_ntv/native_token_vault.md)
  - [Interop](specs/contracts/interop/overview.md)
    - [Message root](specs/contracts/interop/message_root.md)
    - [Forms of finality](specs/contracts/interop/forms_of_finality.md)
    - [Interop messages](specs/contracts/interop/interop_messages.md)
    - [Examples](specs/contracts/interop/examples/README.md)
      - [Cross-chain message](specs/contracts/interop/examples/cross_chain_message.md)
  - [Settlement Contracts](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/zkchain_basics.md)
    - [L1 <> L2 communication](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/priority_queue/README.md)
      - [Handling L1→L2 operations](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/priority_queue/l1_l2_communication/l1_to_l2.md)
      - [L2→L1 communication](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/priority_queue/l1_l2_communication/l2_to_l1.md)
      - [Overview - Deposits and Withdrawals](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/priority_queue/l1_l2_communication/overview_deposits_withdrawals.md)
      - [Priority queue](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/priority_queue/priority-queue.md)
    - [Data availability](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/data_availability/README.md)
      - [Pubdata](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/data_availability/pubdata.md)
      - [Compression](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/data_availability/compression.md)
      - [Reconstruction](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/data_availability/reconstruction.md)
      - [Validium and zkPorter](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/data_availability/validium_zk_porter.md)
      - [Custom DA support](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/data_availability/custom_da.md)
      - [Rollup DA support](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/data_availability/rollup_da.md)
      - [Standard pubdata format](specs/contracts/settlement_contracts/data_availability/standard_pubdata_format.md)
  - [Gateway](specs/contracts/gateway/overview.md)
    - [Chain migration](specs/contracts/gateway/chain_migration.md)
    - [L1->L2 messaging via gateway](specs/contracts/gateway/messaging_via_gateway.md)
    - [L2->L1 messaging via gateway](specs/contracts/gateway/l2_gw_l1_messaging.md)
    - [Gateway protocol versioning](specs/contracts/gateway/gateway_protocol_upgrades.md)
    - [DA handling on Gateway](specs/contracts/gateway/gateway_da.md)
  - [zkEVM](specs/contracts/zkevm/overview.md)
    - [Batches and blocks on ZKsync](specs/contracts/zkevm/batches_and_blocks_on_zksync.md)
    - [Bootloader](specs/contracts/zkevm/bootloader.md)
    - [System contracts](specs/contracts/zkevm/system_contracts.md)
    - [Precompiles](specs/contracts/zkevm/precompiles.md)
    - [Account abstraction](specs/contracts/zkevm/account_abstraction.md)
    - [Fee model](specs/contracts/zkevm/zksync_fee_model.md)
  - [EVM Emulation](specs/contracts/evm_emulation/technical_overview.md)
    - [Differences from Cancun EVM](specs/contracts/evm_emulation/differences_from_cancun_evm.md)
    - [EVM Gas Emulation](specs/contracts/evm_emulation/evm_gas_emulation.md)
    - [EVM Predeploys List](specs/contracts/evm_emulation/evm_predeploys_list.md)
- [Upgrade history](specs/upgrade_history/gateway_upgrade/README.md)
  - [Gateway upgrade diff](specs/upgrade_history/gateway_upgrade/gateway_diff_review.md)
  - [Gateway upgrade process](specs/upgrade_history/gateway_upgrade/upgrade_process_no_gateway_chain.md)
  - [V27 EVM Emulation Upgrade](specs/upgrade_history/v27_evm_emulation/v27_evm_emulation.md)
- [Prover](specs/prover/overview.md)
  - [Getting Started](specs/prover/getting_started.md)
  - [ZK Terminology](specs/prover/zk_terminology.md)
  - [Function Check if Satisfied](specs/prover/boojum_function_check_if_satisfied.md)
  - [Gadgets](specs/prover/boojum_gadgets.md)
  - [Circuit Testing](specs/prover/circuit_testing.md)
  - [Circuits Overview](specs/prover/circuits/overview.md)
- [Era VM](specs/era_vm_specification/README.md)
  - [VM primer](specs/era_vm_specification/zkSync_era_virtual_machine_primer.md)

# Announcements

- [Announcements](announcements/README.md)
  - [Configuration Format Changes](announcements/config_format_changes.md)
